'\" t
.\" Do not move or remove previous line.
.\" Used by some man commands to know that tbl should be used.
.nh
.TH SIGGEN 8 "04 Jan 2018" "Open Source Tripwire 2.4"
.SH NAME
siggen \- signature gathering utility for Tripwire
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B siggen
[
.BR -t | --terse
] [
.BR -h | --hexadecimal
] [
.BR -a | --all
] [
.BR -C | --CRC32
] [
.BR -S | --SHA
] [
.BR -h | --HAVAL
]
.IR file1 ,,,
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBsiggen\fP is a utility that displays the hash function values 
for the specified files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \(hyt ", " --terse
Terse mode.
Prints requested hashes for a given file on one line, delimited
by spaces, with no extraneous information.
.TP
.BI \(hyh ", " --hexadecimal
Display results in hexadecimal rather than base64 notation.
.TP
.BI \(hya ", " --all
Display all hash function values (default).
.TP
.BI \(hyC ", " --CRC32
Display CRC-32, POSIX 1003.2 compliant 32-bit Cyclic Redundancy 
Check.
.TP
.BI \(hyM ", " --MD5
Display MD5, the RSA Data Security, Inc. Message Digest Algorithm.
.TP
.BI \(hyS ", " --SHA
Display SHA, \fITripwire\fP's implementation of the
NIST Secure Hash Standard, SHS (NIST FIPS 180).
.TP
.BI \(hyH ", " --HAVAL
Display Haval value, a 128-bit hash code.
.TP
.IR file1 " [ " "file2... " ]
List of filesystem objects for which to display values.
.SH EXIT STATUS
\fBsiggen\fP exits 0 on success, 1 on error.
.SH VERSION INFORMATION
This man page describes
.B siggen
version 2.4.
.SH AUTHORS
Tripwire, Inc.
.SH COPYING PERMISSIONS
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this man page provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all copies.
.PP
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this man page under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical to this one.
.PP
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this man page into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions, except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved by Tripwire, Inc.
.PP
Copyright 2000-2019 Tripwire, Inc. Tripwire is a registered trademark of Tripwire, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All rights reserved.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR twintro (8),
.BR tripwire (8),
.BR twadmin (8),
.BR twprint (8),
.BR twconfig (4),
.BR twpolicy (4),
.BR twfiles (5)
